---
title: "Private Ph.D. Defense - Differentiable Ray Tracing for Radio Propagation"
categories:
  - Research
tags:
  - manim
  - manim-slides
  - presentation
  - propagation
  - ray-tracing
image:
  path: /assets/img/posts/private-defense.webp
  alt: "Private Ph.D. Defense - Generated by ChatGPT"
permalink: /posts/private-defense/
description: Private Ph.D. defense slides.
---

On May 5th, 2026, I defended my Ph.D. thesis
*Differentiable Ray Tracing for Radio Propagation*
at UCLouvain, in front of my jury members:
- Prof. Laurent Jacques (supervisor, UCLouvain);
- Prof. Claude Oestges (supervisor, UCLouvain);
- Prof. Christophe Craeye (chairman, UCLouvain);
- Prof. Christophe De Vleeschouwer (secretary, UCLouvain);
- Prof. Philippe De Doncker (Université Libre de Bruxelles);
- Prof. Enrico Maria Vitucci (Università di Bologna);
- and Dr. Jakob Hoydis (NVIDIA).

At UCLouvain, Ph.D. defenses are in two parts. The first part is private, in which the candidate presents their work to the jury members only. This part lasts several hours, including the question-and-answer session. If the jury is satisfied with the work, the candidate is invited to perform the public defense, which is usually less technical and targets a wider audience (i.e., colleagues, friends, and family). The slides presented during the private defense are available below. The slides for the public defense, as well as the video recording and thesis document, will be made available in due time.

## Slides

{% include slides.html url="/assets/slides/2026-05-05-private-defense.html" %}

If you prefer, a <a href="/assets/slides/2026-05-05-private-defense.pdf">PDF <i class="far fa-file-pdf fa-fw"></i></a>
versions is also available. No PowerPoint version is available as it would be too large for GitHub.

## References

{% bibliography --cited %}

## Source code

Available on GitHub:
[`_slides/2026-05-05-private-defense/main.py`{: .filepath}](https://github.com/jeertmans/jeertmans.github.io/blob/main/_slides/2026-05-05-private-defense/main.py).
